== xl-critic - The Lisp Critic scans your code for instances of bad Lisp programming practice.

* Home URL: https://github.com/miyamuko/xl-critic
* Version: 0.0.1


=== SYNOPSIS

以下のように lisp-critic:critique でチェックしたい式を scratch バッファなどで評価。

    (lisp-critic:critique
     (defun count-a (lst)
       (setq n 0)
       (dolist (x lst)
         (if (equal x 'a)
             (setq n (+ n 1))))
       n))

以下のような結果が出力されます。

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Don't use setq inside DOLIST to accumulate values for n.
    Use DO. Make n a DO variable and don't use SETQ etc at all.
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    You have an IF with no else branch. If the return value of the IF
    matters, you should explicitly say what the else returns, e.g., NIL.
    If the return value doesn't matter, use WHEN or UNLESS.
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    INCF would be simpler to add 1 to n than (lisp-critic::?
    lisp-critic::FN)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    GLOBALS!! Don't use global variables, i.e., n
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Unless something special is going on, use EQL, not equal.
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Don't use (+ n 1), use (1+ n) for its value or (incf n) to change n,
    whichever is appropriate here.
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------


=== DESCRIPTION

xl-critic は {The Lisp Critic}[http://www.cs.northwestern.edu/academics/courses/325/exercises/critic.html#critic]
を xyzzy で使えるようにしたものです。

lisp-critic については {lisp-criticでスタイルチェック - わだばLisperになる - cadr group}[http://cadr.g.hatena.ne.jp/g000001/20110510/1305025908]
を参照してください。


=== INSTALL

1. {destructuring-bind}[http://coderepos.org/share/export/38912/lang/xyzzy/destructuring/site-lisp/destructuring-bind.l]
   を site-lisp にインストール

2. xl-critic をロード

     (require "critic")

3. scratch バッファなどで (lisp-critic:critique <ここにチェックしたいる式>) を評価


=== TODO

* バイトコンパイル出来るようにする
* カーソル下の関数をチェックして結果をバッファに表示


=== KNOWN BUGS

* バイトコンパイルしないと死ぬほど遅いが、バイトコンパイルすると動かない。
* エラーメッセージがおかしい

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Why do you think you need that (lisp-critic::? lisp-critic::FN) on
    (lisp-critic::? lisp-critic::VAR)?
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

要望やバグは
{GitHub Issues}[http://github.com/miyamuko/xl-critic/issues] か
{@miyamuko}[http://twitter.com/home?status=%40miyamuko%20%23xyzzy%20xl-critic%3a%20]
まで。


=== AUTHOR

みやむこ かつゆき <mailto:miyamuko@gmail.com>


=== COPYRIGHT

xl-critic は Chris Riesbeck 氏によって開発された Common Lisp 版の lisp-critic を
xyzzy lisp に移植したものです。

xl-critic は MIT/X ライセンスに従って本ソフトウェアを使用、再配布することができます。

  Copyright (C) 1997-2005 Christopher K. Riesbeck
  Copyright (C) 2011 MIYAMUKO Katsuyuki.

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
  a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
  "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
  without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
  distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
  permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
  the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
  included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
  NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
  OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
  WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
